Now, the next thing that
we're gonna start to want
in our JavaScript programs are variables.
And like Sarah McLachlan,
our variables will remember the values
that we ask them to remember.
So, so far, we've been working
with a lot of values just in and
of themselves, and that means we've
had to repeat ourselves a lot.
Like when we had those examples
of manipulating the DOM, and
we would have to repeat document.query
selector, blah, blah, blah,
a bunch of different times to get
the same thing out every time.
Wouldn't it be nice if we could
just remember that value and
have JavaScript given
to us whenever we want?
And that is exactly
what variables are for.
So for example,
I could create a variable, and
this is a JavaScript spell that's
going to create a variable to remember
a very important date,
the 21st of September, do you remember?
Anyway, [LAUGH] and this is an example of
this one way we can create
a variable in JavaScript.
So looking at this line of code,
what do y'all notice about it?
Just point out some things,
what do you notice in this code?
And chat, feel free to chime in as well,
anything jumping out at us.
>> Purple.
>> Purple, [LAUGH] yes, in this
particular syntax highlighting theme,
something is purple.
What is purple?
>> Let function.
>> Let, this word let.
What is this thing let?
>> Function.
>> TBD, is it a function?
It is a special thing in JavaScript.
We could call it a keyword, and
we could also ask our friend,
MDN, more information about let.
So let is a keyword that
lets us declare a variable.
We're gonna talk more about some of
the other words on this page later.
But let is a special keyword
that indicates a statement,
which we're gonna talk about in a second,
that creates a new variable in JavaScript.
So it's a special feature
of the JavaScript language
that allows us to create or
declare a variable.
So let is what tells JavaScript,
hey, on this line of code,
I want a new variable, and
I want to call that variable remember.
And remember is something,
it's not in purple.
So purple in this scheme, but the syntax
highlighting if you're using a text editor
or you're looking at code examples on MDN,
or something like that.
The syntax highlighting will often
tell you what kind of thing each
word on the page is.
And in this case, it's telling us that let
is a special reserved JavaScript keyword
that means something special.
In this case, it means, hey,
JavaScript, I want a new variable.
And in this case,
remember is just a name that I chose for
this variable, and that's up to me.
We're gonna talk a little
bit about names in a second.
All right, anything else you notice on
this line of code or in this line of code?
Anything else that may be new that
we haven't really seen a lot yet?
>> Variable.
>> Well, yes, it's a variable, exactly.
So the remember is the variable name here,
and we're gonna talk about that.
What about in terms of the syntax or
the symbols that are popping
up in this line of code?
Is there any character or
symbol that is jumping out at us as maybe
a little different than something
we've seen before, Chu?
>> Equals.
>> So we have the equals,
the single equals.
Yes, so we saw that in a couple of
the things that I just told you to write
in the computer without explaining them.
And the single equals is different than,
let's say we just saw the triple
equals for the equality operator.
So yes, the equal sign here,
this is what we call
an assignment operator.
So what this equal sign is saying,
hey, JavaScript,
the let is saying create a new
variable called remember.
And the equals is saying,
assign a value to that
variable of the stuff after the equals.
So excellent point,
the equals is doing a lot of heavy
lifting here in this tiny line of code.
And to the right of the equals,
we have "Sept 21",
which is something we've seen before.
So what is that?
Yeah.
>> A string.
>> It's a string, exactly.
It is a string value, a literal value.
We said it's one of
the primitive data types.
So it's a string value
that we're going to say,
this is the value I want you to remember.
I want you to remember the 21st of
September, cuz Earth, wind, and
fire said so.
So [LAUGH] that is the value
that we're going to be asking
JavaScript to remember for us.
And then there's one other thing left that
we haven't talked about yet, which is?
>> Semicolon.
>> A semicolon at the end
of this piece of code.
And we're going to talk a little bit
later about where semicolons show up.
But essentially, this semicolon is saying,
I'm done talking, JavaScript, I am done.
That is the command I would
like you to go carry out.
Go remember this value, September 21,
as a string in a variable called remember.
And instead of using a period like
we would in an English sentence,
we use a semicolon to say full stop,
JavaScript.
[LAUGH] Okay, look at this.
We just unpacked so much stuff out
of this one tiny line of code.
So let us talk about,
Declaring a variable.
As Michael Scott from
The Office once said,
if you just shout, I declare bankruptcy.
[LAUGH] Have you declared bankruptcy?
I mean, are you now,
as far as the government or
what have you is concerned, bankrupt?
So declaring a variable in
this case is separate from
actually making a meaningful
variable that you can use.
And what this let keyword does
that we just looked at, is, and
it's not the only one, but it is one
way that we can declare a new variable,
is it says, hey, JavaScript,
create a new variable, name it bankruptcy.
And so the question here is,
if we go back to our previous example,
and I say, let remember = "Sept.21" ; what
do you think is the value
of the remember variable?
>> A string.
>> A string, which string?
Sept.21, yes.
Okay, but if I just say let bankruptcy,
as in I declare bankruptcy, and
then put a semicolon,
no equals, no value there,
what do you think is
the value of bankruptcy now?
>> Undefined.
>> Any guesses?
>> Undefined, undefined,
I heard undefined a couple of times.
Exactly, yes.
So let's try this out.
Before, We had let
remember = "Sept.21" ;.
Now, JavaScript console said undefined,
we're gonna talk about that in a second.
But if I now type in the word
remember into my JavaScript console,
no quote, nothing, just a name, it says,
yeah, I remember, it's September 21.
If I do let bankruptcy;, again,
JavaScript console says undefined,
we'll talk about that in a moment,
or a bit later.
But now if I type in the name bankruptcy,
the value that JavaScript
gives me back is undefined.
I haven't given it a value to remember,
I have just said, hey, JavaScript, I want
you to create a variable, and I haven't
given it any value to remember yet.
>> Why is it undefined?
I'm expecting it to be a null.
>> Interesting, so why do we have the,
Why do we have the value of a variable
that I've just declared, but
I haven't given a value yet,
why is it undefined and not null?
And to this, I would say, let's go back
and think about our Backstreet Boys.
[LAUGH] So a null value would
be something where I'm like,
hey, JavaScript,
I want you to remember that, let's say,
I'm not bankrupt,
that there is no bankruptcy here.
In which case,
I could do let bankruptcy = null;.
And now, if I ask JavaScript,
what's bankruptcy?
It's null, there's no bankruptcy,
there has been no bankruptcy.
So this is sort of a way that I can
say in my program, and usually,
if I'm saying this,
it's like I'm talking to another coder,
maybe he was reading my code later,
maybe that coder is me in the future.
And I'm saying, I deliberately
want this value to be empty,
I deliberately want there
to be no value here.
I don't want bankruptcy,
I want a null value for bankruptcy.
However, if I, and I'm refreshing my tab
here to clear out my JavaScript context,
that's gonna be important in a second.
If I just say, let bankruptcy;
without saying anything more,
JavaScript is gonna say, hey,
I don't know if you meant for
there to be a value here,
but there's no value here.
So that is the kind of ain't nothing but
a mistake version of nothingness of maybe
there is supposed to be something here,
I don't know,
you didn't tell me, programmer.
But I can tell you that there's
nothing here, so undefined,
I don't have any definition for this.
Does that make sense?
Awesome, great question.
Okay, so when we declare a variable like
that without giving it a value with let,
we can use let to do this,
we can later go in and give it a value.
And so
if just let bankruptcy here is called
declaring a variable called bankruptcy.
In the second line here,
what we're doing is assigning
a value to that variable that we
had declared on the previous line.
So what this looks like is if I do,
If I do let myDeclaredVariable;, and
now I asked for myDeclaredVariable,
which now my browser is getting smarter,
because it knows that this
might be a value that I want, so
it has an autocomplete option for me.
It's undefined,
same as the bankruptcy thing.
But now, if I type myDeclaredVariable
= "so value much wow",
Now, if I ask again,
what is my declared variable?
Now, it has something it
remembers at that variable.
And so what we've done here is we have
essentially split onto two lines,
which maybe could be at two
different places in our code,
the same thing as if I were to say,
let remember = some value all on one line.
So this line is doing both
the variable declaration, saying, hey,
JavaScript, make me a new variable,
and the variable assignment,
hey, JavaScript, remember this value
as the value of that variable.
So there's a separation, in this case,
between the assignment and
the declaration.
Whereas on the first line that we saw,
the remember September 21st,
that all happens in one line of code.
The point to take away here is that in
order for JavaScript to remember a value,
you need two things.
You need to declare a variable and
you need to assign the value you
care about to that variable.
So we have now seen two
ways of doing this.
We can declare and assign separately
using let variable, semicolon,
and then somewhere later,
the equals operator, single equals,
as the assignment operator to assign
a new value to that variable.
And this is also, by the way,
what we did before when we said
document.query selectorblah.textcontent =.
That's also what we did, we assigned
a new value to that text content.
We'll talk a little bit later about
what all those dots were doing.
Or we can do it all at once,
"such efficient, amaze"; wow.
Okey-doke, so
let's talk a little bit about what is
happening here when we declare and
assign variables.
And again, we're focusing on kind
of our mental models of what
JavaScript's internal mental model
is of variables and how they work.
So let's think about it in
terms of a couple of things.
So when we're dealing with variables,
we have the variables themselves
that we could imagine JavaScript
has kind of a little catalog of.
We'll talk about exactly
what's going on in a second.
And then some kind of values that we
care about in relation to the word.
So when we have, let's say,
our initial when we said,
let remember equal September 21.
What we're doing essentially
is with the let remember part,
we're saying, hey, JavaScript,
I want a new variable called remember.
And then when we have
the equals September 21,
we're saying, and
I care about a value called September 21.
It's a string, has type string,
what have you.
And JavaScript,
I want you to connect that value
to the variable that I've asked
you to create called remember.
When we declare a variable with just let
bankruptcy;, What are we saying?
What do you think?
Maybe, Jason,
I feel like you have a thought brewing.
When I say let bankruptcy;,
what am I telling JavaScript?
>> Let bankruptcy?
>> For example.
>> You're just declaring that variable.
>> I'm declaring the variable, exactly.
So I'm saying, hey, JavaScript,
I want a new variable,
I want it to be named bankruptcy.
And I haven't said
anything about any values.
And so that's where when JavaScript looks
for a value, it doesn't see any value
related to that variable, and it's like,
undefined, don't have a value there.
As opposed to, for example,
to go back to Chu's question,
when we had, okay,
what if we say let bankruptcy equal null?
And so then maybe we're saying,
JavaScript, actually,
I want you to remember the value null,
but that'll be different.
So if we're just declaring the variable,
then we aren't saying
anything about any value.
And we're gonna come back to this in
a moment to kind of understand what
is happening with these variables
when we manipulate them.
But so I just wanna focus this as a way
we can think about the difference between
the variable and any values that may or
may not be related to the variable.